! PATHSAMPLE input to expand the database for the tryptophan zipper peptide (trypzip)
! For further details, see the PATHSAMPLE documentation

! the path to the A9OPTIM binary to use
EXEC           /home/energy/workshop/binaries/A9OPTIM
! run A9OPTIM locally on a single core - modify as appropriate
CPUS           1
! the number of atoms in the system
NATOMS         220
! specify the random number seed, used to make stochastic alculations repeatable
SEED           1
! specify the direction of the pathway using spectroscopic convention i.e. AB = A<-B where A and B are the endpoints
! in min.A and min.B respectively
DIRECTION      AB
! minimum number of connected minima to be found for new minimum
CONNECTIONS    1
! specify the temperature to use when calculating rate constants 
! 0.592 kcal/mol = 298K
TEMPERATURE    0.592
! specify the value of Planck's constant in kcal/mol
PLANCK         9.536D-14

! when aligning structures, minimise the distance between stationary points with respect to permutational isomerisation
! the groups of atoms to be considered identical are described in the perm.allow file
PERMDIST
! define the energy and distance cutoffs below which we assume structures are identical - matches odata.connect
ETOL           1.0D-4
GEOMDIFFTOL    1.0D-1
! additionally use a principal moment of inertia tensor difference criterion for distinguishing stationary points
ITOL           1.0D1
! reject any transition states of energy > -390 kcal/mol - used to prevent unphysical CH2 inversions occuring
MAXTSENERGY    -390.0

! STEP 1: examine the 'fastest path'
! perform a Dijkstra analysis 
DIJKSTRA 0
! do not perform any connection cycles
CYCLES 0

! STEP 2: decide on a strategy to expand the database
! regenerate the list of minima for subsequent connection attempts every (1) cycle
PAIRLIST 1
! uncomment to check minima being selected for connection without running A9OPTIM
! DUMMYRUN

! Option A - SHORTCUT x
! try to reconnect minima further than x steps apart on the Dijkstra fastest path
! SHORTCUT x
! perform 10 connections cycles (10 x CPUS A9OPTIM runs)
! CYCLES 10

! Option B - SHORTCUT x BARRIER
! try to connect minima less than x steps away from transition states with high barriers
! on the Dijkstra fastest path
! SHORTCUT x BARRIER
! CYCLES 10

! Option C - UNTRAP einc thresh (edeltamin) (elowbar) (ehighbar)
! try to connect minima to eliminate kinetic traps - minima of low energy but high barriers to the product basin
! - einc is the energy interval used in a disconnectivity analysis to define the product basin
! - thresh is the maximum energy above the product minimum to consider connecting to
! - edeltamin (optional) is substituted for the energy difference between candidate and product minima if larger than the energy difference
! - elowbar (optional) sets a floor to the smallest barrier size considered to avoid issues with very small barriers  
! - ehighbar(optional)  sets a maximum barrier height, above which minima will not be selected
! e.g. UNTRAP 4.0 50
! UNTRAP einc thresh (edeltamin) (elowbar) (ehighbar) 
! CYCLES 10

! Option D - FREEPAIRS x1 x2 x3
! like UNTRAP, FREEPAIRS attempts to reconnect minima to reduce frustration
! unlike UNTRAP, it uses regrouped (see REGROUPFREE) free energy barriers to select pairs 
! - x1 corresponds to the free energy barrier height below which free energy minima are combined
! - free energy minima that lie more than x2 units of energy above the global free energy minimum group are ignored
! - x3 is the energy increment used in the superbasin analysis to estimate barriers. 
! FREEPAIRS x1 x2 x3
! CYCLES 10

! Option E - CONNECTREGION min1 min2
! CONNECTREGION runs double-ended transition state searches between minima whose minimum separation is less then dist 
! pairs with an existing direct connection are ignored
! - min1 and min2 specify the starting minima in the double loop over pairs e.g. CONNECTREGION 1 2 will consider all minima
! CONNECTREGION min1 min2
! CYCLES 10

! Option F - ADDPATH path.info.x
! add minima and transition states from A9OPTIM path.info files
! this will require running separate A9OPTIM jobs with extracted minima as endpoints (see EXTRACTMIN)
! rename your path.info file or alter the argument to the keyword below
! ADDPATH path.info.toadd
! CYCLES 0

! STEP 3: check NGT rate
! specify that a graph transformation approach should be used to the A->B and B->A calculate rate constants
! minima with 0 connections or less are not considered
! kinetic monte-carlo rate constants are not (F) calculated 
! NGT 0 F
! free energy minima where forward and backward free energy barriers are both less than 3.9 are combined into groups
! REGROUPFREE 3.9
! CYCLES 0

! specify that we are using the AMBER potential via an interface to AMBER 9
AMBER9
